.Dd 11 October, 2011
.Dt 4S-ADMIN 8J 4store
.Os 4store
.Sh NAME
.Nm 4s-boss
.Nd An administration and store discovery daemon for 4store
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl D | \-no-daemonize
.Op Fl p Ar port | Fl \-port Ar port
.Nm
.Op Fl \-help
.Op Fl \-version
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be run on 4store storage nodes to provide a store discovery mechanism 
for a 4store cluster (as an alternative to Avahi/DNS-SD).
.Pp
It also provides a backend to enable store admin operations to be performed
through the the
.Xr 4s-admin 1
utility.
.Pp
It should be started on all storage nodes of a cluster, and will run as a
daemon listening on port 6733 by default.
.Pp
Error and informational output is sent to
.Pa /var/log/syslog
when run as a daemon, and to
.Pa stderr
when run in the foreground.
.Pp
.Ss Command line options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl D , Fl \-no-daemonize
Do not daemonize, send output to stdout/stderr instead of syslog.
.It Fl p Ar port, Fl \-port Ar port
Port number to listen on.
.El
.Pp
.Ss Configuration file options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy port = <port_number>
Port number to listen on.
.El
.Pp
Options for
.Nm
in
.Pa /etc/4store.conf
should all be within the
[4s-boss] section, or will be ignored.
.Pp
Other options in the [4s-boss] section of the configuration file are used to
set the nodes of a cluster, and to set how
.Nm
is used for store discovery.
See
.Xr 4store.conf 5
for details.
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /etc/4store.conf
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Start 4s-boss in the foreground on port 9000
.Pp
.Dl $ 4s-boss --no-daemonize --port 9000
.Pp
Start 4s-boss as a daemon on the default port (6733)
.Pp
.Dl $ 4s-boss
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr 4s-admin 1 ,
.Xr 4store.conf 5 
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Dave Challis Aq suicas@gmail.com .
.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.Nm
should never be run as root.
It should be started as any user that has read access to
.Pa /var/lib/4store ,
and ideally the same user that would run any 4s-backend processes.
.Pp
The port
.Nm
runs on should only be accessible from trusted hosts, and appropriate firewall
restrictions put in place.
This is to prevent untrusted users/hosts from sending store
deletion/stop/start requests .
