.Dd 8 October, 2011
.Dt 4S-ADMIN 5J 4store
.Os 4store
.Sh NAME
.Nm 4store.conf
.Nd 4store configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The file
.Pa /etc/4store.conf
contains settings used by
.Xr 4s-admin 1 ,
.Xr 4s-boss 8 ,
.Xr 4s-httpd ,
.Xr 4s-import 1
and
.Xr 4s-query 1 .
.Ss File format
The config file uses GLib's key file format, which contains key-value pairs
organised into groups.
The syntax of the file is as follows:
.Pp
Blank lines or beginning with a hash character are considered comments:
.D1 # this is a comment
.Pp
Groups are defined by enclosing a group name within square
brackets:
.D1 [first group]
.D1 [group2]
.Pp
Each key-value pair must be placed on a new line, and will
belong to the group above it.
.Pp
A key-value pair is specified using 'key=values', where values
can be a semicolon separated list of strings:
.D1 [group1]
.D1 ids=1;2;3
.D1 people=Alice;Bob
.D1 [group2]
.D1 disable_foo=false
.Ss Store options
These are options which will affect the running of 4s-backend
and 4s-httpd.
.Pp
To set them for all stores, place them in an option group 
named
.Sy [default] .
.Pp
To set them on a single store, place them in an option group
with the same name as the store, e.g.\&
.Sy [store1] .
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy unsafe = true|false
Enable unsafe operations (such as LOAD).
Default is false.
.It Sy cors = true|false
Enables CORS.
Default is false.
.It Sy port = <port_number>
Port to run HTTP SPARQL daemon (4s-httpd) on.
Default is 8080.
.It Sy default-graph = true|false
Set the default graph to be a union of named graphs.
Default is false.
.It Sy soft-limit = <limit>
Sets the soft limit, or set to 0 to disable.
Default is 2000.
.It Sy opt-level = <level>
Set the optimisation level, from 0 to 3.
Default is 3 (all optimisations enabled).
.It Sy listen = <hostname>|<ip_address>
The hostname or IP address that 4s-httpd should listen on.
Default is localhost.
.El
.Ss 4s-boss options
These options are used to configure
.Xr 4s-boss 8 ,
and set how and if it should be used for store discovery.
.Pp
These options should all be in a group named
.Sy [4s-boss] .
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy port = <port_number>
Set port to run 4s-boss daemon on.
Default is 6733.
.It Sy discovery = none|sole|default
Determines how 4s-boss is used for store discovery.
Default is none.
.It Sy nodes = <hostname_or_ip>[:<port>];...
List of nodes in the cluster which run 4s-boss.
Default is localhost.
.El
.Pp
Set
.Sy discovery
to
.Sy none
to use Avahi/DNS-SD for discovery instead of 4s-boss.
Set to
.Sy sole
to use 4s-boss as the only discovery mechanism.
Set to
.Sy default
to use use 4s-boss for discovery, but fall back to Avahi/DNS-SD.
.Pp
The
.Sy nodes
option sets the hosts and ports of storage nodes in a 4store
cluster that uses 4s-boss.
Hosts can be specified either as hostnames or IPv4/IPv6
addresses, optionally followed by a colon character and port
number (assumes default port of 6733 if no port is specified).
.Pp
To specify a port number with an IPv6 address, enclose the
address in square brackets, e.g.:
.D1 [2001:db8::1]:6733
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /etc/4store.conf
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -unfilled
# Global settings
[default]
    unsafe = true
    cors = true

# Options for store 'kb1'
[kb1]
    port = 8888
    default-graph = false
    soft-limit = 0
    opt-level = 3

# Options for store 'store2'
[store2]
    soft-limit = 20000
    port = 8090

# Enable discovery using 4s-boss, and define a 4 node cluster on:
#   HOST                PORT
#   host.example.org    6733 (default)
#   192.0.2.1           6734
#   ::1                 6733 (default)
#   2001:db8::1         6735
[4s-boss]
    port = 6733
    discovery = sole
    nodes = host.example.org;192.0.2.1:6734;::1;[2001:db8::1]:6735
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr 4s-admin 1 ,
.Xr 4s-boss 8 ,
.Xr 4s-import 1 ,
.Xr 4s-query 1
.Pp
.Lk http://developer.gnome.org/glib/2.28/glib-Key-value-file-parser.html#glib-Key-value-file-parser.description "GLib key file description"
